S.No	Commands & Description
1	VER
This batch command shows the version of MS-DOS you are using.

2	ASSOC
This is a batch command that associates an extension with a file type (FTYPE), displays existing associations, or deletes an association.

3	CD
This batch command helps in making changes to a different directory, or displays the current directory.

4	CLS
This batch command clears the screen.

5	COPY
This batch command is used for copying files from one location to the other.

6	DEL
This batch command deletes files and not directories.

7	DIR
This batch command lists the contents of a directory.

8	DATE
This batch command help to find the system date.

9	ECHO
This batch command displays messages, or turns command echoing on or off.

10	EXIT
This batch command exits the DOS console.

11	MD
This batch command creates a new directory in the current location.

12	MOVE
This batch command moves files or directories between directories.

13	PATH
This batch command displays or sets the path variable.

14	PAUSE
This batch command prompts the user and waits for a line of input to be entered.

15	PROMPT
This batch command can be used to change or reset the cmd.exe prompt.

16	RD
This batch command removes directories, but the directories need to be empty before they can be removed.

17	REN
Renames files and directories

18	REM
This batch command is used for remarks in batch files, preventing the content of the remark from being executed.

19	START
This batch command starts a program in new window, or opens a document.

20	TIME
This batch command sets or displays the time.

21	TYPE
This batch command prints the content of a file or files to the output.

22	VOL
This batch command displays the volume labels.

23	ATTRIB
Displays or sets the attributes of the files in the curret directory

24	CHKDSK
This batch command checks the disk for any problems.

25	CHOICE
This batch command provides a list of options to the user.

26	CMD
This batch command invokes another instance of command prompt.

27	COMP
This batch command compares 2 files based on the file size.

28	CONVERT
This batch command converts a volume from FAT16 or FAT32 file system to NTFS file system.

29	DRIVERQUERY
This batch command shows all installed device drivers and their properties.

30	EXPAND
This batch command extracts files from compressed .cab cabinet files.

31	FIND
This batch command searches for a string in files or input, outputting matching lines.

32	FORMAT
This batch command formats a disk to use Windows-supported file system such as FAT, FAT32 or NTFS, thereby overwriting the previous content of the disk.

33	HELP
This batch command shows the list of Windows-supplied commands.

34	IPCONFIG
This batch command displays Windows IP Configuration. Shows configuration by connection and the name of that connection.

35	LABEL
This batch command adds, sets or removes a disk label.

36	MORE
This batch command displays the contents of a file or files, one screen at a time.

37	NET
Provides various network services, depending on the command used.

38	PING
This batch command sends ICMP/IP "echo" packets over the network to the designated address.

39	SHUTDOWN
This batch command shuts down a computer, or logs off the current user.

40	SORT
This batch command takes the input from a source file and sorts its contents alphabetically, from A to Z or Z to A. It prints the output on the console.

41	SUBST
This batch command assigns a drive letter to a local folder, displays current assignments, or removes an assignment.

42	SYSTEMINFO
This batch command shows configuration of a computer and its operating system.

43	TASKKILL
This batch command ends one or more tasks.

44	TASKLIST
This batch command lists tasks, including task name and process id (PID).

45	XCOPY
This batch command copies files and directories in a more advanced way.

46	TREE
This batch command displays a tree of all subdirectories of the current directory to any level of recursion or depth.

47	FC
This batch command lists the actual differences between two files.

48	DISKPART
This batch command shows and configures the properties of disk partitions.

49	TITLE
This batch command sets the title displayed in the console window.

50	SET
Displays the list of environment variables on the current system.